Job Description
 
Associate Counsel - 39274
 
University Staff
 
Description
 
Join Our Team and Make a Difference in Higher Education!

At the System Administration office at the University of Colorado, we are dedicated to building a workplace where everyone feels valued, supported, and empowered to thrive. Our office is committed to fostering a culture where employees find community, a sense of belonging, and the opportunity to contribute meaningfully to our mission and purpose.  

By joining our team, you’ll have a direct impact on shaping the future of higher education. In addition to the Office of the Board of Regents, the University of Colorado’s system administration includes 19 units that provide essential services to CU’s campuses in Aurora, Boulder, Colorado Springs, and Denver, as well as the Office of the President. While not a part of any one campus, we are proud to serve in the centralized office for the University system. Together, we ensure CU continues to deliver outstanding education, groundbreaking research, and valuable service to our communities.

We believe in creating an environment where the unique experiences and perspectives of everyone are embraced, enriching the work we do and the strategic outcomes we pursue. If you’re passionate about making a difference, contributing to a dynamic team, and supporting a mission that matters, we encourage you to apply and be part of our journey.  Learn more about CU System Administration.

Position Summary:	
The Associate Counsel is a member of the professional staff of the University of Colorado’s (CU) Office of University Counsel, which provides legal services, research, and analysis to CU System Administration and the CU campuses as a result of the individual’s expertise with a particular legal issue or area.

The individual in this position: (1) possesses advanced knowledge associated with the professional practice of law; (2) performs independent associated duties that are predominantly intellectual and varied in nature, requiring creative, analytical, evaluative, interpretive, leadership, and/or critical thinking; and (3) exercises discretion and independent judgment, requiring very minimal supervision for day-to-day tasks.

The Associate Counsel functions with a high degree of autonomy and accountability and may be called upon to provide leadership and guidance to junior level attorneys, while working closely as part of a team to represent and advise the President’s Office and its administration. The Office of University Counsel prides itself on timely and excellent legal advice. The successful candidate must be able to work independently and collaboratively in a fast-paced environment to quickly recognize issues, propose possible solutions, follow-up towards resolution, and solve problems.

This security-sensitive position requires a criminal background check for initial appointments, or at any time when determined by the position’s supervisory authority to be in the best interests of the University.

This position reports to the Deputy University Counsel System Administration and is exempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is exempt from the state personnel system based upon its professional level duties and reporting relationship to an officer of the administration (see C.R.S. § 24-50-135(1)(a)).

Where You Will Work:	
Applicants must be Colorado residents or able to relocate to Colorado within a month of starting employment with University of Colorado System Administration.

This role is eligible for a hybrid schedule, working most days from home and some days in office.  This role will also possibly float to remotely support other campuses.

Please note, leadership may adjust in-office work requirements with a minimum of three months' notice before any change can be implemented.

Equal Opportunity Statement:	CU is an Equal Opportunity Employer and complies with all applicable federal, state, and local laws governing nondiscrimination in employment. We are committed to creating a workplace where all individuals are treated with respect and dignity, and we encourage individuals from all backgrounds to apply, including protected veterans and individuals with disabilities. 
Duties & Responsibilities:	
Duties and responsibilities of the position include, but are not limited to:

Advises on labor and employment across System and campuses
Advises on other legal issues concerning the University including:
Other aspects of labor and employment law including civil rights laws, the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA); for faculty, exempt professional, state classified, and student employees  
Federal and state laws and regulations, particularly those impacting institutions of higher education, health care providers, and/or pertaining to the conduct of research
Public law issues, including open records and open meetings issues 
Application and interpretation of the Laws of the Regents and University Policies
Student and faculty rights and responsibilities in a university setting
Constitutional and civil rights
Tax exempt organizations 
Land use planning
Data Privacy, including FERPA
Alcohol on campus
Minors on campus
Title IX / VAWA / Clery Act
Reviews, drafts, and negotiates contracts, transactions, and other legal agreements with little to no supervision from supervising attorney. 
Analyzes, researches, drafts, and provides advice with respect to proposed legislation using complete independent judgment 
Seeks out opportunities to serve and advise University and System-wide committees and working groups
Stays current with relevant legal changes or updates to provide the best advice available
Performs other duties as assigned 
 

What We Offer:	
Salary: The anticipated hiring range has been established at $165,000 - $175,000.

CU System Administration takes into consideration a combination of the selected candidate’s education, training and experience as it relates to the position, as well as the position’s scope and complexity, internal pay equity and external market value when determining a salary level for potential new employees.

Benefits: With our unparalleled range of benefits, including top-notch healthcare, comprehensive wellness programs, enriching professional development, and a dynamic work-life balance, we ensure your holistic growth and happiness.

No-cost or low-cost medical & dental plan options, some inclusive of IVF assistance.
Disability, Life, Vision Insurance options.
Multiple retirement planning options including a mandatory 401(a) plan where CU contributes 10% of your gross pay, a 401k or 403b plan and a 457 deferred compensation plan.
Pre-tax savings plans, such as Health care and Dependent care flexible spending accounts.
Embrace a healthy work-life balance with ample sick and vacation leave, along with at least 12 paid holidays. This includes a dedicated week off for winter break.
6 weeks of parental leave to adjust to the joys of parenthood.
A tuition benefit program for you and/or your dependents.
Free RTD EcoPass and Free Onsite Parking at our 1800 Grant Street Office.
Many additional perks & programs with the CU Advantage.
Additional taxable fringe benefits may be available. 

For more information on benefits programs, please review our Comprehensive Benefits Guide. 

Access our Total Compensation Calculator to see what your total rewards could be at CU.  (This position is a University Staff position)

Qualifications:	
Minimum Qualifications:

Please ensure your resume includes any and all relevant experience to be accurately assessed against these qualifications.  You must meet all minimum requirements listed at the time of application to be considered for this role.

Juris Doctorate from an American Bar Association (ABA) accredited law school
Eight (8) years practicing law 
Professional practice of law in a higher education or state government environment, which includes experience in labor and employment matters
Licensed to practice law in the state of Colorado, or the ability to obtain a Colorado license promptly after an offer of appointment 
Record of ethical behavior
 

Preferred Qualifications:

Ten (10)  years practicing law, which includes:
Substantial experience representing institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, or other public sector entities in labor and employment matters
 
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

Knowledge of case law and Colorado state and federal laws and regulations concerning higher education institutions, especially related to labor relations and negotiations
Oral, written, and listening communication skills, including the ability to accurately interpret what others are saying and convey messages, information, concepts, and details clearly
Interpersonal skills, including the ability to facilitate interaction, communication, and teamwork between others
Ability to prioritize and manage multiple projects and initiatives, in some cases with short timeframes for response
Ability to analyze, organize, and effectively present, both orally and in writing, legal issues, opinions and recommendations to a variety of constituents
Ability to juggle multiple projects and demonstrate flexibility to accommodate the shifting priorities of multiple constituents
Ability to deal tactfully and effectively with a variety of internal constituents and external contacts in the provision of comprehensive legal services to the University
Ability to work within a diverse team and actively seek out opportunities to promote and cultivate diversity across the organization. 
Demonstrated excellence as a team member:
Ability to serve as a senior leader within an organization;
Demonstrated ability to analyze, organize, and effectively present, both orally and in writing, legal issues, opinions and recommendations to a variety of constituents;
Demonstrated ability to juggle multiple projects and demonstrate flexibility to accommodate shifting priorities of multiple constituents;
Demonstrated ability to deal tactfully and effectively with a variety of internal constituents and external contacts in the provision of comprehensive legal services to the university;
 

How to Apply:	
For full consideration, please attach the following as separate documents to your application:

A cover letter identifying the job specific minimum qualifications you possess
A resume including any and all relevant experience to be accurately assessed against the qualifications listed in the posting.
Please ensure you check the “Job Specific Attachments” box next to each document on the “Required Documents” page of the application for the appropriate documents to be attached.

Per the Colorado Job Application Fairness Act, you are not required to provide your date of birth, dates of school attendance, or dates of graduation on your resume or cover letter. If an application requires additional materials, such as a transcript or certification, you may redact identifying information relating to your date or birth, dates of school attendance, or dates of graduation.

When to Apply:	For full consideration completed applications must be submitted by March 26, 2026.  Reference checking is a standard step in our hiring process. You may be asked to provide contact information, including email addresses, for up to five references as part of the search process for this position. *Please note: All application materials must be submitted through CU Careers; emailed materials will not be considered.*
Sponsorship Statement:	We are unable to sponsor applicants for work visas for this position.
Background Check Statement:	The University of Colorado is committed to providing a safe and productive learning and living community. To achieve that goal, we conduct background investigations for all final applicants being considered for employment. Background investigations include a criminal history record check, and when appropriate, a financial history, motor vehicle history and/or fingerprinting background check. The Immigration Reform and Control Act requires that a verification of employment eligibility be documented for all new employees by the end of the third day of work. The University of Colorado is committed to diversity and equality in education and employment.
ADA Statement:	We are committed to an inclusive and barrier-free search process. We provide accommodations for applicants requesting accommodation through the search process such as alternative formats of this posting.  Individuals with disabilities in need of accommodations throughout the search process should contact the ADA Coordinator at: systemhr@cu.edu.